---
layout: post
title: Overview on Stata figure schemes  
date: 2021-10-05 16:25:00
description: this post gives us a quick overview about my Stata figure schemes 
---

Throughout the years, I have created several Stata figure schemes. This post gives you a brief overview about what I produced. If you want to learn more I would push you to read my Stata article on figure schemes (and some of the work Ben Jann has done). 

1.  plotblain: 

1.  plottig: 

1.  538: 

You can install all of these schemes in Stata by using the `ssc install` command: 
<center>
`ssc install blindschemes, replace all ssc`
`set scheme plottig, permanently`
</center>

It largely mirrors the design of ggplot2 for R. It also integrates a whole bandwidth of new colors for Stata (more or less the entire rainbow).

The newest version of the schemes can now be downloaded within Stata. In Stata type:


This theme supports generating various diagrams from a text description using [jekyll-diagrams](https://github.com/zhustec/jekyll-diagrams){:target="\_blank"} plugin.
Below, we generate a few examples of such diagrams using languages such as [mermaid](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/){:target="\_blank"}, [plantuml](https://plantuml.com/){:target="\_blank"}, [vega-lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/){:target="\_blank"}, etc.

**Note:** different diagram-generation packages require external dependencies to be installed on your machine.
Also, be mindful of that because of diagram generation the fist time you build your Jekyll website after adding new diagrams will be SLOW.
For any other details, please refer to [jekyll-diagrams](https://github.com/zhustec/jekyll-diagrams){:target="\_blank"} README.


## Mermaid

Install mermaid using `node.js` package manager `npm` by running the following command:
```bash
npm install -g mermaid.cli
```

The diagram below was generated by the following code:

{% raw %}
```
{% mermaid %}
sequenceDiagram
    participant John
    participant Alice
    Alice->>John: Hello John, how are you?
    John-->>Alice: Great!
{% endmermaid %}
```
{% endraw %}

{% mermaid %}
sequenceDiagram
    participant John
    participant Alice
    Alice->>John: Hello John, how are you?
    John-->>Alice: Great!
{% endmermaid %}
